BG Rules

The board of bg has 24 triangles.
Each player has 15 checkers.
Players go in opposite direction, Alice goes from 1 to 24, Bob from 24 to 1.
The position 0 (For Alice) and 25 (For Bob) exists when a piece has been captured.
Captured checkers are put on the the bar : the central bar of the board.

The initial setup is symetrical :
For Alice
Position 1: 2 pieces
Position 12: 5 pieces
Position 17: 5 pieces
Position 19: 3 pieces

For Bob
Position 24: 2 pieces
etc...

The objective is to bring all checkers to the last 6 positions, and only then to extract them outside of the board.

To know who is going to start, each player roll one dice

The player with the highest number starts with the other player's dice.
Eg Alice rolls 6, Bob rolls 1, Alice plays first with 6 and 1
If both players rolls the same number, re roll, optionnal rules put the Videau in x2 mode.

After the first roll, each player play in turn throwing 2 dices.

The doubling cube (videau) is a special dice displaying power of 2 values : 1, 2, 4, 8 ...
At the beginning of the game, the doubling cube is at 1 and playable by both players, only during their turn and before throwing the dices.
Playing the videau means doubling the multiplier of points that game represents.
You play the videau by giving it to the other player.
Only the player that owns the videau can play it.

When Bod receives the videau from Alice, he can accept it, the game has now a multiplier doubled.
Alice can throw her dices and play her turn.
he can refuse it, he forfeit a 1 point game multiplied by the videau's value before receiving it. 

The value of the videau starts at 1 and is a multiplier of the number of points the game represent.
if the videau is at 1, the game is a x1 game.
if the videau is at 4, the game is a x4 game.

Each player has to use each dice independently, and the rule forces to uses the maximum dices when possible.
Rolling any double is equivalent of having 2x as much dice.
Eg rolling a double 5, is equivalent of having 5 5 5 5, with 4 independent dices.

Note that It is not possible to add the value of 2 dices, you need to play each dice independently.

You move a piece by the number of spaces in the dice.
Eg: Alice has roll a 3 and has a piece in position 2, she can move the piece by 3 positions => destination 5.
A destination is possible if it contains anything but more than 1 opponent.
If it contains exactly 1 opponent, this opponent piece is captured and goes back to 0 for Alice, and 25 for Bob.

You can put any number of your pieces on the same destination.

You are forced to enter your captured checkers with your dice before moving any other checker.

Once all your checkers are in the last 6 positions, you can start extracting them out of the board.

Bob has to extract his checkers by reaching the position 0. Unless he has no other option, each dice is used to extract each checker by reaching the position 0 and not less (position -1)

This means that if Bob has a checker in position 6 and one in position 5, a dice with a 6 has to be used on the checker 6 to reach the position 0 (outside).
Bob can't use it on the checker in position 5, unless there is no checker in position 6.

The first to extract all his checker wins.
1 point if the opponent has extracted at least 1 checker
2 points if the opponent hasn't extracted any checker.
3 points if the opponent hasn't extracted any checker and still has a checker in its 6 first position.

The multiplier of the videau is applied to know how many points the player wins.
